.. vim: syntax=rst

REFERENCES
==========

Below are cited references in an alphabetical listing by author.

Ball, J. T., I. E. Woodrow, and J. A. Berry (1987), A model predicting
stomatal conductance and its contribution to the control of
photosynthesis under different environmental conditions, in Process in
Photosynthesis Research, vol. 1, edited by J. Biggins, pp. 221–234,
Martinus Nijhoff, Dordrecht, Netherlands.

Bowling, L.C., D.P. Lettenmaier, B. Nijssen, L.P. Graham and
co-authors, 2003: Simulation of high latitude hydrological processes in
the Torne-Kalix basin: PILPS Phase 2(c) 1: Experiment description and
summary intercomparisons. Global and Planet. Change

Brun, E., Martin, E., Simon, V., Gendre, C., and Coléou, C.: An energy and
mass model of snow cover suitable for operational avalanche forecasting, J.
Glaciol., 35, 333-342, https://doi.org/10.3189/S0022143000009254, 1989.

Brun, E., David, P., Sudul, M., and Brunot, G.: A numer- ical model to simulate
snow-cover stratigraphy for operational avalanche forecasting, J. Glaciol., 38,
13-22, https://doi.org/10.3189/S0022143000009552, 1992.

Brun, E., Martin, E., and Spiridonov, V.: Coupling a multi- layered snow model
with a GCM, Ann. Glaciol., 25, 66-72,
https://doi.org/10.3189/S0260305500013811, 1997.

Bryan, F. O., B. G. Kauffman, W. G. Large, and P. R. Gent (1996). The
NCAR CSM flux coupler, NCAR Tech. Note 424, 50 pp. [Available from NCAR,
Boulder, CO 80307]

Chen, F., K.E. Mitchell, J. Schaake, Y. Xue, H.-L. Pan, V. Koren,
Q.Y. Duan, M. Ek and A. Betts, 1996: Modeling of land-surface
evaporation by four schemes and comparison with FIFE observations. J.
Geophys. Res., 101, 7251-7268.

Chen, F., Z. Janic and K.E. Mitchell, 1997: Impact of atmospheric
surface-layer parameterizations in the new land-surface scheme of the
NCEP mesoscale Eta model. Bound.-Layer Meteorol., 85, 391-421.

Chen, F. and K.E. Mitchell, 1999: Using the GEWEX/ISLSCP forcing
data to simulate global soil moisture fields and hydrological cycle for
1987-1988, J. Meteorol. Soc. Japan, 77, 167-182.

Dickinson, R. E., M. Shaikh, R. Bryant, and L. Graumlich (1998),
Interactive canopies for a climate model, J. Clim., 11, 2823-2836,
doi:10.1175/1520-0442.

Dirmeyer, P.A., A.J. Dolman, N. Sato, 1999: The pilot phase of
the Global Soil Wetness Project. Bull. Am. Meteorol. Soc., 80(5),
851-878.

Eidhammer, T., A. Booth, S. Decker, L. Li, M. Barlage., D. Gochis., R.
Rasmussen, K. Melvold., A. Nesje and S Sobolowski (2021), Mass balance and
hydrological modeling of the Hardangerjøkulen ice cap in south-central Norway,
Hydrol. Earth Syst. Sci. 25, 4275-4297,
https://doi.org/10.5194/hess-25-4275-2021.

Ek, M.B., K.E. Mitchell, Y. Lin, E. Rogers, P. Grunmann, V.
Koren, G. Gayno, and J.D. Tarpley, 2003: Implementation of Noah land
surface model advances in the NCEP operational mesoscale Eta model.
Submitted to J. Geophys. Res., Aug., 2003.

Gerbaux, M., Genthon, C., Etchevers, P., Vincent, C., and Dedieu, J.: Surface
mass balance of glacier in the French Alps: Dis- tributed modeling sensitivity
to climate change, J. Glaciol., 175, 561-572,
https://doi.org/10.3189/172756505781829133, 2005.

Gochis, D.J. and F. Chen, 2003: Hydrological enhancements to the
community Noah land surface model. NCAR Technical Note, NCAR/TN-454+STR,
68 pgs.

Jones, P. W. (1999). First- and Second-Order Conservative Remapping
Schemes for Grids in Spherical Coordinates, Monthly Weather Review,
Volume 127, 2204-2210.

Julien, P.Y., B. Saghafian and F.L. Ogden, 1995: Raster-based
hydrological modeling of spatially-varied surface runoff. Water Resour.
Bull., AWRA, 31(3), 523-536.

Koren, V., J.C. Schaake, K.E. Mitchell, Q.Y. Duan, F. Chen and J.
Baker, 1999: A parameterization of snowpack and frozen ground intended for
NCEP weather and climate models. J. Geophys. Res., 104(D16),
19,569-19,585.

LDAS, 2003: Land Data Assimilation Systems (LDAS). World Wide Web
Homepage. Available online at: http://ldas.gsfc.nasa.gov/

Mahrt, L. and H.-L. Pan, 1984: A two-layer model of soil
hydrology. Bound.-Layer Meteorol., 29, 1-20, 1984.

Niu, G.-Y., et al. (2011), The community Noah land surface model with
multiparameterization options (Noah-MP): 1. Model description and
evaluation with local-scale measurements, J. Geophys. Res. 116, D12109,
doi: 10.1029/2010JD015139.

Niu, G.-Y., and Z.-L. Yang (2004), The effects of canopy processes on
snow surface energy and mass balances, J. Geophys. Res., 109, D23111,
doi:10.1029/2004JD004884.

Niu, G.-Y., Z.-L. Yang, R. E. Dickinson, L. E. Gulden, and H. Su (2007),
Development of a simple groundwater model for use in climate models and
evaluation with Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment data, J.
Geophys. Res., 112, D07103, doi:10.1029/2006JD007522.

Ogden, F.L., 1997: CASC2D Reference Manual. Dept. of Civil and
Evniron. Eng. U-37, U. Connecticut, 106 pp.

Pan, H.-L. and L. Mahrt, 1987: Interaction between soil hydrology
and boundary-layer development, Bound.-Layer Meteorol., 38, 185-202.

Skamarock, W. C., J. B. Klemp, J. Dudhia, D. O. Gill, D. M.
Barker, W. Wang, and J. G. Powers, 2005: A Description of the Advanced
Research WRF Version 2. NCAR Technical Note NCAR/TN-468+STR,
doi:10.5065/D6DZ069T.

Vionnet, V., Brun, E., Morin, S., Boone, A., Faroux, S., Le Moigne, P., Martin,
E., and Willemet, J.-M.: The detailed snowpack scheme Crocus and its
implementation in SURFEX v7.2, Geosci. Model Dev., 5, 773-791,
https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-5-773- 2012, 2012.

Wigmosta, M.S. L.W. Vail and D.P. Lettenmaier, 1994: A
distributed hydrology-vegetation model for complex terrain. Water
Resour. Res., 30(6), 1665-1679.

Wigmosta, M.S. and D.P. Lettenmaier, 1999: A comparison of
simplified methods for routing topographically driven subsurface flow.
Water Resour. Res., 35(1), 255-264.

Wood, E.F., D.P. Lettenmaier, X. Kian, D. Lohmann, A. Boone, S.
Chang, F.Chen, Y. Dai, R.E. Dickinson, Q. Duan, M. Ek, Y.M. Gusev, F.
Habets, P. Irannejad, R. Koster, K.E. Mitchell, O.N. Nasonova, J.
Noilhan, J. Schaake, A. Schlosser, Y. Shao, A.B. Shmakin, D. Verseghy,
K. Warrach, P. Wetzel, Y. Xue, Z.-L. Yang, and Q.-C. Zeng, 1998: The
project for intercomparison of land-surface parameterization schemes
(PILPS) phase 2(c) Red-Arkansas river basin experiment: 1. Experiment
description and summary intercomparisons, Global Planet. Change, 19,
115-135.

Yang, Z.-L., and G.-Y. Niu (2003), The versatile integrator of surface
and atmosphere processes (VISA) part I: Model description, Global
Planet. Change, 38, 175–189, doi:10.1016/S0921-8181(03)00028-6.

ESMF (Earth System Modeling Framework)
https://www.earthsystemcog.org/projects/esmf/

USGS Global Land Cover Characterization
https://www.usgs.gov/centers/eros/science/usgs-eros-archive-landcover-products-global-land-cover-characterization-glcc-0?qt-science_center_objects=0#qt-science_center_objectsTableLegend:Appendix3
https://edcftp.cr.usgs.gov/project/glcc/globdoc2_0.html#app3

IGBP_MODIS_BU+tundra Landcover Class Legend

ftp://ftp.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/mmb/gcp/ldas/noahlsm/README

NCL (NCAR Command Language) https://www.ncl.ucar.edu/

CDO (Climate Data Operators) https://code.mpimet.mpg.de/projects/cdo/
